			       OVERVIEW

This archive contains the sources for five programs (well, actually,
four, since one is a symbolic link):

	delete
	undelete
	expunge
	purge
	lsdel

The programs were written at Project Athena in response to the problem
which many novice Unix users have with accidentally deleting files
they didn't want to delete (Hell, I've done it :-).


			 SUPPORTED PLATFORMS

I've personally compiled these sources under Vax 4.3BSD, IBM AOS 4.3,
Mach on the NeXT Machine (with the "-bsd" flag to the compiler),
Ultrix 3.1 on the DECstation 3100, SunOS 4.0, A/UX, and HP-UX, and I
assume they should compile with minimal trouble on other
architectures.  If you make it compile on another platform and you
have to make changes, please send me patches.


			 WHAT YOU NEED TO DO

1. Compile the com_err library (see below for more details) and
   install it if you want to (you'll have to modify the delete
   Makefile a bit if you don't).

2. Edit the Makefile to fit your site.  See below for details.

3. Compile away!  Type "make" to make without installing, or "make
   install" to install binaries and man pages in the locations you
   specified when you edited the Makefile.


		       CUSTOMIZING THE MAKEFILE

You are probably going to have to do one or more of the following to
make the Makefile work for you.

1. Change the install binary directory and install man page directory
   (and possibly man section).

2. Change the ETINCS and ETLDFLAGS variables to point to the right
   place.  Also, change the COMPILE_ET variable to point to a
   compile_et executable if you haven't installed it somewhere in your
   search path.

3. If you want to be able to build dependencies, then change DEPEND to
   the name of the program on your system that knows how to do that.

4. If your system is SYSV-like (e.g. it uses strchr and strrchr
   instead of index and rindex, or it has memcpy and doesn't have
   bcopy), and your compile doesn't define the symbol SYSV
   automatically, then put "-DSYSV" in the DEFINES variable.

5. If you want to support Andrew File System (AFS) mountpoint
   detection, and you have AFS include files and libraries available
   to you, then uncomment the variables starting with "AFS" and set
   them appropriately.

6. See the comment in the Makefile about USE_BLOCKS.  If you do not
   know whether or not you have st_blocks or if it represents 512-byte
   blocks, run "make block-test" and you should be told what to do.


			   COM_ERR LIBRARY

In order to compile delete, you need to get your hands on the com_err
package, which was written by members of the MIT Student Information
Processing Board (SIPB).  If com_err isn't available from the place
from which you got the delete sources, you can get it from volume 22
of the comp.sources.unix archives, under the name "et".  You should
compile the library and compile_et utility that comes with it and then
either install them in a "standard location" on your machine or modify
the delete Makefile so that it knows where they are.  The delete
Makefile does not compile them by default, since they are already
compiled and installed at Athena, so you should compile and install
them separately from delete.


				 BUGS

It is not clear to me that the USE_BLOCKS code is going to do the
right thing on all systems.  If you define USE_BLOCKS and discover
that lsdel, expunge or purge gives you bogus values for file sizes or
total amount of space, please let me know, because it will help me to
tighten up the code to work on a variety of different systems.


		     I'M LOOKING FOR BETA-TESTERS

I try to make this package run on as many different platforms as
possible.  However, I do not have access to a large variety of
platforms, so I can't effectively test all of the changes I make.  I'm
therefore looking for people who are willing to beta-test changes
before I release them to the general public.  If you are interested in
doing this, please let me know.


			     ARCHIVE SITE

The most recent version of the delete package and patches to get from
previous versions to the most recent version are archived on
pit-manager.mit.edu (18.72.1.58).  You can retrieve them via anonymous
ftp in the directory /pub/delete, or via mail-server (send a message
with the subject "help" to "mail-server@pit-manager.mit.edu").


			     FINAL NOTES

As usual, suggestions and bug fixes are always welcomed.

My address:

Jonathan Kamens			              USnail:
MIT Project Athena				11 Ashford Terrace
jik@Athena.MIT.EDU				Allston, MA  02134
Office: 617-253-8085			      Home: 617-782-0710

P.S. Please see the file "mit-copying.h" for copying and
redistribution information.  Copyright 1991 Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.  All Rights Reserved.  Etc.
